For most writers, there’s a feeling of catharsis
that accompanies having a book published.
You had something to say, and now it’s out
there for the world to view.
It may become a bestseller or it might move
five copies, all to your mom, but either way,
you created something meaningful.
Your high school classmates were wrong about
you, just like you always knew!
But sometimes that euphoric feeling doesn’t
last.
Sometimes it turns to downright loathing.
Here are 10 writers who hated, hid, or simply
pretended books they wrote didn’t exist.
10) Ian Fleming, The Spy Who Loved Me
1961-62 was a good time to be Ian Fleming.
His James Bond novels were consistent bestsellers;
production had begun on the first Bond film,
Dr. No.
Despite all this, Fleming wasn’t happy after
learning his adult thrillers were increasingly
being read by schoolchildren who idolized
James Bond.
So he resolved to write a book showing his
famous spy from “the other end of the gun
barrel,” sort of a cautionary tale about
a civilian who gets caught up in Bond’s
world.
The result was The Spy Who Loved Me, told
from the perspective of ordinary woman Vivienne
Michel, who chronicles such espionage staples
as losing her virginity in a movie theater,
becoming a secretary, aborting her boss’s
child, and managing a failing motel until
mobsters try to torch it (and her) for the
insurance money.
Bond himself doesn’t appear until two-thirds
of the way into the book to dispatch the thugs,
seduce Vivienne, and leave before the final
chapter.
Whatever Fleming was going for, it didn’t
work — critics panned the new Bond novel,
in spite of such ultra-progressive dialogue
as “All women love semi-rape.
They love to be taken.
It was his sweet brutality against my bruised
body that had made his act of love so piercingly
beautiful.”
Reviews were not so piercingly beautiful,
and Fleming, stung, declared the experiment
a failure and requested that no paperback
version or hardcover reprints be issued.
The next novel proceeds as if TSWLM never
happened, and Fleming would only allow the
title to be used for a movie if it had nothing
to do with the book’s plot.
For all that, it did give us one lasting contribution
to the Bond canon: Horror, a gangster with
steel-capped teeth who inspired the infamous
film henchman Jaws.
9) Stephen King (as Richard Bachman), Rage
It’s easy to make fun of Stephen King these
days for the sheer volume of his body of work
and some of the more, well, hokey concepts.
(Killer trucks?
Really, Stephen?)
But it’s also easy to forget how many of
his books, especially the early ones, were
genuinely terrifying; and in one instance,
tragically prescient.
The first novel King ever wrote, Rage tells
the story of a high schooler who brings a
gun to school, kills two teachers, and holds
his class hostage, only for them to begin
empathizing with him in a creepy Tyler Durden-esque
fashion.
The reason for the book’s censorship is
unfortunately obvious — after the spate
of school shootings in recent years, a novel
told from the perspective of the killer is
not something King wants serving as possible
inspiration.
At least one real-life shooter was reported
to have had a copy of Rage in his locker,
so King and his publishers jointly agreed
not to publish any future editions.
Considering he wrote the story when he was
still in college, he’s probably just lucky
he didn’t get flagged as a potential risk
case himself by school administrators.
8) Martin Amis, Invasion of the Space Invaders
If you’ve never heard of Martin Amis, don’t
feel bad: it just means you’re an uncultured
semi-illiterate, at least according to The
Times, who rated him as #19 on their list
of The 50 Greatest British Authors Since 1945.
(His father Kingsley Amis was #9, meaning
the old guy can literally claim to be twice
the author his son is.)
These days Martin writes serious books and
gets into pissing matches with other authors
about things like radical Islamism.
Which is probably why he’s not eager to
claim credit for 1982’s Invasion of the
Space Invaders: An Addict’s Guide to Battle
Tactics, Big Scores and the Best Machines.
It’s exactly what it sounds like, a guide
to early video games that Amis is extremely
reluctant to discuss or even acknowledge writing.
Hard to imagine, since it boasts an introduction
by Steven Spielberg and is filled with fantastic
bon mots like: “Do I take risks in order
to gobble up the fruit symbol in the middle
of the screen?
I do not, and neither should you.
Like the fat and harmless saucer in Missile
Command (q.v.), the fruit symbol is there
simply to tempt you into hubristic sorties.
Bag it.”
And: “PacMan player, be not proud, nor too
macho, and you will prosper on the dotted
screen.”
A reporter once suggested to Amis, possibly
in jest, that it was one of the best things
he’d ever written, then noted “The expression
on his face, with perhaps more pity in it
than contempt, remains with me uncomfortably.”
7) Don DeLillo, Amazons
Don DeLillo is a renowned author and playwright,
part of the Postmodern literature movement
in the U.S.
In recent years, noted critic and pretentious
guy Harold Bloom described him as one of only
four living American novelists who are still
writing and deserve our praise.
Be that as it may, the one book of DeLillo’s
that you would probably enjoy the most is
the only one you won’t find on his official
list of published works.
That would be Amazons, which DeLillo co-wrote
in 1980 after a string of six well-reviewed
but financially disappointing novels.
A humorous faux autobiography, Amazons tells
the story of Cleo Birdwell, the first woman
to play hockey in the NHL, which apparently
largely consists of sleeping with your coaches
and teammates.
By all accounts it’s actually pretty funny,
but DeLillo has never publicly acknowledged
writing the book and specifically asked to
have it left off his official bibliography.
Which is a shame, because if more award-winning
geniuses took occasional breaks from their
serious works to do something funny and low-brow,
the other 99% of us would probably pay more
attention to the rest of their stuff.
6) Dante Gabriel Rossetti, most of his poetry
As the name implies, Dante Gabriel Rossetti
was born into an artistic lifestyle — his
uncle created the modern vampire story, his
siblings all became writers, and his wife
Elizabeth Siddal was a prominent artist’s
model, posing for Ophelia and other works.
Dante himself founded a prominent artistic
movement, but between painting and writing
poetry, also found time to sleep with plenty
of women.
Surprisingly Elizabeth was not down with this
(chicks, right?), and her husband’s infidelities
contributed to her depression and possibly
intentional laudanum overdose.
Rossetti was devastated, but his response
was juuuust a bit extreme: he slipped a notebook
full of poems he had been readying for publication
into Siddal’s hair in her coffin, then had
it buried with her.
Which is creepy but slightly romantic, if
you squint hard enough.
Except unlike some of the others on this list,
Rossetti eventually changed his mind; and
if you think you know where this is going,
congratulations on being right!
Yes, several years later he had Siddal exhumed
to recover the notebook.
While worms had eaten through parts of the
pages (you only wish we were kidding), the
poems were eventually published, albeit not
to any great critical acclaim.
Meanwhile, Rossetti reportedly felt wretchedly
guilty over violating his wife’s grave for
the rest of his life.
As one does.
5) Herge, Tintin in the Land of the Soviets
When it comes to a Tintin book kept under
wraps, everyone thinks of the same thing:
Tintin in the Congo, where everyone’s favorite
Belgian reporter engages in casual racism
and slaughters half the animals in Africa.
But as uncomfortable as that volume is to
modern eyes, writer/artist Herge had no problem
with updating and reissuing it years later
alongside his newer Tintin books.
In fact, there’s only one of his early works
that he refused to redraw to match his later
style: the very first Tintin story of all…
in the Land of the Soviets.
But why?
Mainly because the first couple of Tintin
stories were forced on Herge by his editor,
an ultraconservative priest who wanted to
educate kids about things like the evils of
communism.
And by “educate” we mean “make up a
bunch of stuff” — Herge took everything
he knew about Russia from one sensationalistic
book aimed at criticizing the communist regime.
Due to some of the extreme examples depicted
— things like fake factories designed to
trick people into thinking industry was strong,
and elections held at gunpoint — Herge would
later call the story “a transgression of
my youth.”
(Ironically, historians would later note that
his depictions were pretty accurate to how
terrible living conditions in Russia actually
were at the time.)
Regardless, Herge kept Tintin in the Land
of the Soviets off shelves for years, only
relenting when bootleg copies began flooding
the market, because you might as well get
paid, right?
Even then, he would only allow the original,
crude black and white strip to be reprinted,
without any colorization or updating.
Although we’ll be mighty disappointed if
some fanboy isn’t working on that even as
we speak.
4) Nikolai Gogol, Dead Souls II and III
These days a guy named Nikolai Gogol could
only be a Russian mobster or a video game
boss (and really, “Dead Souls” sounds
exactly like a first-person shooter), but
150 years ago it was also an acceptable writer’s
name.
In fact, Gogol was one of Russia’s most
influential authors, going on to inspire the
only two other Russian writers you’ve ever
heard of, Nabokov and Dostoyevsky.
He was already famous when he penned his masterpiece
Dead Souls, a modern updating of Dante’s
Divine Comedy.
Despite being hailed as his greatest work,
Gogol saw it as “a pale introduction to
the great epic poem which is taking shape
in my mind and will finally solve the riddle
of my existence.”
He intended to write a complete trilogy that
would prompt social reform and actually save
Russia from itself, because writers like melodrama.
So what happened?
Zealotry, plain and simple.
While working on the sequel, Gogol came under
the sway of Matvey Konstantinovsky, a fanatical
priest who convinced him that his creative
work was an abomination to the Lord.
Thus, on the evening of February 24, 1852,
Gogol burned the nearly complete manuscript
of Dead Souls II and any notes he’d made
for the third volume; only a few scraps escaped
the flames.
He then immediately ceased eating and died
nine days later, proving that you don’t
have to be mentally unbalanced to destroy
your life’s work, but it helps.
3) Mark Twain, 1601
You may be wondering what Mark Twain, a man
known for holding absolutely nothing sacred,
could possibly have written that he would
want to bury.
A story about incest?
A cookbook for human flesh?
The reality is almost disappointing: a bunch
of fart and sex jokes.
1601: Conversation, as it was by the Social
Fireside, in the Time of the Tudors is a pastiche
Twain wrote to try his hand at archaic writing
and to skewer those who believed the Elizabethan
era to have been a time of strict propriety.
It chronicles a fictional fireside chat between
Queen Elizabeth, several noblewomen, Shakespeare,
Sir Walter Raleigh, and others.
To give you an idea of what we’re dealing
with, here’s a sample line: “In ye heat
of ye talk it befel yt one did breake wind,
yielding an exceding mightie and distresfull
stink, whereat all did laugh full sore.”
Okay, so not his most mature story, but why
publish it anonymously and wait 26 years before
acknowledging authorship?
At one point Twain was apparently proud of
1601, writing to a friend “…for between
you and me the thing was dreadfully funny.
I don’t often write anything that I laugh
at myself, but I can hardly think of that
thing without laughing.”
(Of course, years later he would say “if
there is a decent word findable in it, it
is because I overlooked it,” so take your
pick.)
Written in between his two best-known works,
Tom Sawyer and Huckleberry Finn, it’s likely
Twain didn’t want potential bad press over
a relatively minor story to cast a negative
light on his recent and upcoming masterpieces.
Probably smart, since 1601 was considered
unprintable by mainstream publishers from
1880 all the way until the early 1960s, when
Elizabethans making jokes about pubic hair
became more socially acceptable.
2) William Powell, The Anarchist Cookbook
If you fall anywhere on the spectrum between
“a little wild in my youth” to “currently
stockpiling munitions in my private bunker,”
you’re familiar with the 1970 book The Anarchist
Cookbook, a veritable how-to guide on everything
from mixing explosives to concealing drugs.
Though many of the explosives recipes were
later found to be inaccurate (some dangerously
so), it maintains a cult appeal and continues
to sell well to this day… much to the chagrin
of its author, William Powell.
You see, Powell wrote the book at age 19,
angry at the prospect of being drafted to
fight in Vietnam and looking to lash out at
The Man.
And just as no one has ever looked back at
their teenage self and thought “I was a
clear, rational person whose actions still
make sense to me today,” Powell — now
a father and a teacher — would like nothing
more than for his infamous book to go away
forever.
As he writes in the Amazon.com review where
he begs people not to buy it, “The central
idea to the book was that violence is an acceptable
means to bring about political change.
I no longer agree with this.”
Unfortunately for Powell, he doesn’t own
the rights, so the most he can do is give
interviews and raise awareness about that
thing he wants everyone to forget.
And you thought you felt bad about all those
mailboxes you smashed.
1) Franz Kafka, everything he ever wrote
If you ever lamented having to read The Metamorphosis
in high school, bite your tongue — it could’ve
been much, much worse.
Kafka, considered one of the greatest writers
of the 20th century, was ruthlessly self-critical
and is estimated to have burned an unbelievable
ninety percent of everything he ever wrote.
Not content with making future scholars weep,
on his deathbed Kafka asked his friend Max
Brod to destroy all of his remaining writings.
Thankfully, Brod interpreted this as “do
the exact opposite of what I just asked,”
publishing several of his friend’s books
in the ensuing decade and even smuggling a
briefcase full of Kafka’s papers on the
last train out of Prague before the Nazis
closed the border.
Amazingly, that’s not even the end of the
story, as the remaining writings and sketches
passed on to Brod’s secretary and in turn
to her daughters, who are currently embroiled
in a lawsuit with the Nation of Israel.
You know, over ownership of 100-year-old papers
that were supposed to be incinerated in the
first place.
Meanwhile, Kafka’s lover kept another 20
of his notebooks safe until they were seized
by the Gestapo in 1933.
There’s an ongoing volunteer project dedicated
to searching WW2-era documents to try to find
the notebooks if they still exist.
Which just goes to show one thing: if you
really want your work destroyed, toss it in
the flames yourself.